                         1. UTILITIES
                         ____________
 
 
 
1.1 Analysing the Results File
______________________________
 
 
1.1.1 Introduction
1.1.1 Introduction
 
The results-analysis sub-system provides a means of analysing
the results file. This file is written to automatically by
certain commands:
 
 strip-flux
 ring-flux
 noise-map
 
At present three options exist in the sub-system:
 
 1) print      --  print the results file
 2) plot       --  plot the results file
 3) UV-overlay --  overlay results as UV regions
 
The final option in the list only applies to certain commands,
strip-flux, noise-map, at present, which work out results, one
for each region of a map.
 
The following sections describe the commands in more details
 
 
1.1.2 Save-Results-File
1.1.2 Save-Results-File
 
Routines in Anmap write to, and the utilities in the results
sub-system work on, the current results file. The net effect
is that the file is continuously being over written. If you
want a permanent copy of the results file use this command
which will copy it to a permanent disc file. To work on a
saved file you will need to make it current by using the
recover-results-file command.
 
 
1.1.3 Recover-Results-File
1.1.3 Recover-Results-File
 
If you have previously saved a results file to a permanent
disc file you will need to recover the disc file and make it
current once again in order to use the results sub-system
utilities on it. The permanent disc file will be copied to the
current results file overwriting anything that was in the
file.
 
 
1.1.4 Print
1.1.4 Print
 
Parameters: columns, format, title, output-device
 
The current results file is printed in a number of formats.
You may choose which columns in the results file to include in
the output, for instance if there are 8 columns the following
are all valid syntax for sub-sets of columns to print:
 
 
    1,2,4,5,6 --   gives     --  1 2 3 5 6
    1--4      --   gives     --  1 2 3 4
    1--6,8    --   gives     --  1 2 3 4 5 6 8
 
 
The actual columns present in the results file are listed when
you type 'print' in response to the "Results>" prompt and
before the routine prompts you for the list of columns to
print.
 
You will then be prompted for a FORTRAN format description to
control the printing of the data. This should be enclosed in
parentheses as you would do in a normal fortran write
statement. Any text should be enclosed in double quotes. All
numbers are treated in the program as real*4 numbers and the
output format statement should be set appropriately. As
examples:
 
 
    (1X,1P8E10.1)    (1X,F12.6,''   +/-   '',F12.6)
 
 
Note the double quotes which are necessary to introduce any
text. You will then be prompted for an "additional-title" this
will be added to the printed output as well as the title from
the results file. The output may be sent to the terminal, a
disc file or the line printer by replying appropriately to the
"output-file" prompt.
 
 
1.1.5 Plot
1.1.5 Plot
 
Parameters: x-axis, y-axis, x-range, y-range, single-point,
symbol, title
 
You may select two columns from the results file to plot
against one another as a graph. You will initially be prompted
for the columns in the results file to use as the "x-axis" and
"y-axis" of the plot. As in the print utility, the columns in
the results file will be listed on the screen.
 
The range of the "x-data" and "y-data" will be displayed and
you will be prompted for a range in "x" and one in "y" which
will be the range on the plot.
 
Two types of plot are possible -- as single points, or as a
continuous line (graph). If you choose to plot the data as
single points then you will be prompted for the symbol to use
which requires a numeric code. The available symbols are those
supported by PGPLOT and the most useful are indicated with the
prompt and described in the Chapter 4 on the map-display sub-
system. Finally, a title for the plot may be given, the
default is the title of the results file.
 
If an output device is not currently open, you will be
prompted for the output device and the default will be
sensible for your own terminal. If a plot device is open then
either a fresh page will be started (essentially the screen
will be cleared and the plot drawn) or if the graphics overlay
facility is enabled then the plot will overlayed on the
current plot in the normal way -- see graphics-overlay-mode
command which is also described in Chapter 4.
 
 
1.1.6 UV-Overlay
1.1.6 UV-Overlay
 
Parameters: column-to-plot, format-description
 
Certain commands return results for UV-regions, for instance
the strip-flux and noise-map commands in the map-analysis sub-
system. The results from these commands may be printed and
plotted in the usual ways using the results-analysis sub-
system utilities described above. A third useful way of
showing the data is by overlaying it on a contour map of the
map data -- this command. For each UV-window, the window is
drawn on the screen overlaying the map, then in each window,
one value (appropriate to that UV-window) will be plotted in a
user defined format.
 
The routine will make as many checks as possible that the
results file is of the format:
 
 
     UV-range  (4 numbers),  other-columns-data
 
 
but it is by no means full-proof and you should exercise as
much care as possible. You will then be prompted for the
column to use for output, which will normally be one of the
columns beyond column 4. Finally you will have to specify a
FORTRAN format description enclosed in parentheses to use as
for the display of the relevant number. For example:
 
 
     (1PE12.3)    (F6.4)
 
 
This procedure requires a currently open plot on which to
work. The map-display command set-style can be used to change
the size and font of the text used to display the numbers, for
example:
 
set-style text 1.0,  2
 
will set the text size to 1.0 (approximately 1/40th of the
screen size) and the font to font-number 2 -- roman. The fonts
are fully described in the chapter on the map-display (Chapter
4) sub-system.
 
 
 
1.2 Edit-Redtape Sub-system
___________________________
 
Warning   It is easy to seriously damage your map with this
          utility. As many checks as possible are incorporated
          to stop you, but these facilities have to be present
          to enable you to correct pathological cases.
 
 
1.2.1 Introduction
1.2.1 Introduction
 
Edit-Redtape is a redtape editor which can be used to modify
the redtape of a map, either adding extra information or
correcting existing information. It is also possible to copy
the redtape from one map to another.
 
The map redtape is the header information stored with your
image -- it defines such things as the scaling from the units
your map is stored in to the units of the quantity you have
measured, the coordinate system, and data type. In addition
there is some history and textual information which will be
useful in just identifying the image.
 
For maps made using the standard Cambridge software additional
information may be present such as the map-making redtape used
to define how the map was made, and information specific to
such things as beam-sets in an appropriate case.
 
Certain routines such as CLEAN add important information to
the redtape, while all routines will update the history and
maximum/minimum entries.
 
The full definition of the redtape of the map is stored in the
file:
 
                 (LIBRARY)MAPLIB-REDTAPE:INCL
 
Users intending to modify the redtape should be very careful,
as the items defining the map size are crucial to the analysis
routines' ability to read and write the data correctly -- if
you suspect problems in these cases you should seek expert
help.
 
The editor works on the current redtape; on entering edit-
redtape you should make the redtape of a particular map
current by using the read-redtape command. For example:
 
      read-redtape 1
 
will read the redtape for catalogue entry number 1. To look at
the redtape use the display-redtape command or the dump
command to list every value present in the redtape header.
 
      display-redtape
 
will print a formatted output to the screen.
 
To modify redtape entries use the set-redtape-item command, to
see what you can change type a "?" in response to the Set-
option : prompt. Things you can change are listed in the help
entry on set-redtape-item.
 
When you are happy with your new redtape use the write-redtape
command to save it to a map in the catalogue, for example to
catalogue entry number 1, then just type:
 
      write-redtape 1
 
there may be a short pause while the image is accessed.
1.2.2 read-redtape
1.2.2 read-redtape
 
Parameters: catalogue-entry
 
The redtape for the specified catalogue entry is made current
and you may now edit it. Display-redtape will type this
redtape to the screen at any time and show the currently
modified form. The redtape for the map from which you copy the
redtape will not be affected at this stage.
 
 
1.2.3 write-redtape
1.2.3 write-redtape
 
Parameters: catalogue-entry
 
The current redtape is written to the specified map. This
command will overwrite the redtape presently associated with
that map.
 
To modify the redtape for, for example map number 4, the
following is required:
 
      edit-redtape
      read-redtape 4
          .
          .
      (combination of set/display commands)
          .
          .
          .
          .
      write-redtape 4
 
You may find it useful for the map you modify to be a copy of
an existing map -- use copy-catalogue-entry in the map-
catalogue sub-system.
 
 
1.2.4 display-redtape
1.2.4 display-redtape
 
The current redtape is typed in a formatted form. Any
modifications to the current redtape are shown by this
command.
 
 
1.2.5 dump-redtape
1.2.5 dump-redtape
 
The current redtape is dumped to the terminal (written in an
unformatted form).
 
 
1.2.6 set-redtape-item
1.2.6 set-redtape-item
 
Parameters: option, option value
 
The specified redtape entry is modified. Only the current
redtape is altered; you will need to use write-redtape to
obtain a permanent result. The options currently available to
you are:
 
         map-centre
         source-name
         reference-date
         observation-date
         flux-normalization
         clean-beam
         frequency
         polarization
         name-data-type
         unit-data-type
         created
         history
         title
         owner
         user
 
Press return to the prompt if you do not wish to alter the
parameter. A "?" will supply the list of current options:
 
      set-redtape-item ?
 
or
 
      set-redtape-item
      Redtape-item : ?
 
and you will be prompted again. Please request other options
if you find there are items in the redtape you want to modify
which are not covered by this list. For more details of the
items in the redtape please see the file:
 
                 (LIBRARY)MAPLIB-REDTAPE:INCL
 
which is the definition file for the map redtape.
 
 
1.2.7 Common Problems
1.2.7 Common Problems
 
Some problems are continually re-occurring.
 
a) Incorrect Polarization information
 
This redtape entry is often incorrectly filled in, especially
for maps brought in using FITS or for images from telescopes
where this quantity is not defined.
 
b) Name of the units
 
This is really just for display purposes, but is often
incorrectly filled in, again especially for FITS images.
 
c) Flux-Normalization
 
There are some known problems with Anmap at present and
certain routines, such as reproject, do not correctly
calculate the flux-normalization parameter (initially set by
CLEAN) if the sampling of the map is changed.
 
 
 
